SSHDOS v0.95 Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Nagy Daniel
Release date: 11-26-2003


COPYRIGHT 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

	SSHDOS
	Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Nagy Daniel
	This program is distributed under the terms of the GNU General
	Public License. Please read the copying file for details.

	Portions:

	WATT-32 library (which is based on the WATTCP library)
	Copyright (c) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 Erick Engelke
	Portions Copyright (c) 1993  Quentin Smart
	Portions Copyright (c) 1991  University of Waterloo
	Portions Copyright (c) 1990  National Center for Supercomputer
				     Applications
	Portions Copyright (c) 1990  Clarkson University
	Portions Copyright (c) 1983, 1986, Imagen Corporation
	http://www.wattcp.com
	http://www.bgnett.no/~giva

	ZLIB library
	Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
	http://www.gzip.org/zlib

	PuTTY
	Copyright (c) 1997-2003 Simon Tatham
	PuTTY is distributed under the terms of the MIT licence.
	http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

	CVT100
	Copyright (c) 1988 Jerry Joplin (CVT100)
	Portions copyright (c) 1981, 1988 Trustees of Columbia University
					  in the City of New York
	Permission is granted to any individual or institution
	to use, copy, or redistribute this program and
	documentation as long as it is not sold for profit and
	as long as the Columbia copyright notice is retained.
	http://www.simtel.net/pub/simtelnet/msdos/commprog/cvt100.zip


INTRODUCTION 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

	SSHDOS (SSHD386) is an SSH client which provides a telnet-like
	interactive login shell to remote hosts. It can be used to run
	commands on remote hosts as well.

	SCPDOS (SCPD386) is a secure file transfer utility, which can
	transfer files from remote to local or from local to remote
	machines.

	TELNET (TEL386) is the good old telnet client.

	These programs can run on low-end machines (8086+) when
	compiled as real-mode applications (OpenWatcom large model),
	so it's an ideal solution to connect from el-cheapo machines
	or DOS compatible PDAs.
	The 386 version (OpenWatcom flat model) is much faster,
        but it requires at least a 386 machine.

	SSHDOS currently supports 3DES and blowfish ciphers. Blowfish is
	a bit faster, so I recommend using it (if the server supports it).
	The implemented SSH protocol version is 1.5.
	SSHDOS and SCPDOS supports RSA key and password authentication.

	SSHDOS is based on the WATTCP TCP/IP library, Putty SSH client
	for Windows, the ZLIB compression library and the CVT100
	terminal emulation package.


INSTALLATION 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

	Unzip the package with subdirectory support (pkunzip -d).

	If you have the binary package, no installation is needed.
	Edit the wattcp.cfg and hosts file first, then install a packet
	driver, or set up your PPP connection if you have a modem.

        To compile the sources, you'll also need the WATT-32 and ZLIB
        sources.
	To build the binaries, build ZLIB and WATT-32 first, modify
        the needed makefile properly, copy the ZLIB and WATT-32 libraries
        into the LIB\ subdirectory, then run 'make -f filename', where
        'filename' is needed makefile:
        watcom_l.mak - OW real mode target (for 8086 machines)
        watcom_f.mak - OW protected mode target (for 80386 machines)

	Tested compilers:
        - OpenWatcom 1.x

	Check out the CONTRIB subdirectory for enhancements from
	other authors!


DOCUMENTATION 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

	To get help for SSHDOS, SCPDOS and TELNET, please use the /?
	command	line option.

	SSHDOS options:

	-c <cipher type>   Valid types are '3des' and 'blowfish'.
			   The default is blowfish, it's more secure
			   and faster than 3des.

	-i <identity file> RSA key file for public key authentication.
			   You can create keys with PuTTYGen or Linux
			   ssh-keygen.

	-t <terminal type> This string is passed to the server as the
			   'TERM' environment variable. The default is
			   'xterm'. You can set any string here, but be
			   sure to use a correct keymap file. For the
			   nicest results, I recommend 'linux' with the
			   linux keymap file, if your host supports it.

	-p <port number>   Port to connect to at the remote host.
			   The default SSH port is 22.

	-k <keymap file>   Keymap file. Three sample keymap files are
			   included in the package (for vt100/102,
			   linux and xterm-color terminals). The 'xterm'
			   keymap is hard-wired into SSHDOS, so keymap
			   files should only contain the differences
			   from the 'xterm' keymap.

	-m <mode>          Video mode. Valid modes are:
			   '80x25', '80x60', '132x25' and '132x50'.
			   A VESA VGA card is required for extended modes.

        -s <password>      You can specify your password here. This is
			   useful (but INSECURE) for batch files.

        -l <log file>	   Log the whole session to a file.

        -a <minutes>	   Send keepalive packets. SSHDOS sends IGNORE
			   packets in every 'minutes'.

        -b <COM[1234]>     Copy all output to a Brailab PC adapter
			   connected to the specified COM port.
			   This adapter is useful for the visually
			   challenged.

        -P		   Use a non-privileged local port.

        -C		   Enable compression (for real-mode SSHDOS, you'll
			   need as much free conventional memory as
			   possible).

        -S		   Suppress status line.

 	-B		   Use BIOS for screen writes (no direct video access)
                           This may help visually challenged people.

        -n		   Add CR if server sends only LF. Use this to
			   prevent the 'staircase effect'.

        -d		   Save raw SSH packets to file 'debug.pkt'.

        -v		   Be more verbose at startup.


        During interactive session, SHIFT + PGUP/PGDOWN can be used
	to view the scrollback area.

	If the connection seems to be broken and no disconnection
	happens automatically, you may terminate SSHDOS and TELNET by
	pressing the ALT-X key combination.

	DOS shell can be invoked using the ALT-E key combination.


EXAMPLES컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

	Connect to a linux box using 3des cipher:
	sshdos -c 3des -t linux -k linux.kbd username hostname

	Connect to a host using the 386 version and compression:
	sshd386 -C username hostname

	Connect and run a shell script called 'scriptname':
	sshdos username hostname nohup scriptname &

	Copy a local file to a remote host:
	scpdos localfile username@hostname:remotefile

	Copy a remote file to the local machine:
	scpdos username@hostname:remotefile localfile

	Copy a local directory recursively to a remote host,
	with time attributes of files preserved:
	scpdos -p -r localdir\*.* username@hostname:remotedir/

	Create a telnet connection to a POP3 port on a remote host:
	telnet -p 110 hostname


OFFICIAL SITE 컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴

The official distribution site is http://sshdos.sourceforge.net

The package is available in both executable and source format.
Contact: nagyd@users.sourceforge.net
